*Q1*
MODERATOR: Which AI tools have you used for personal tasks (outside of work) in the past 3 months? Select all that apply.
PARTICIPANT: ChatGPT

*Q2*
MODERATOR: How often do you use AI tools personally?
PARTICIPANT: Less than once a month

*Q3*
MODERATOR: I’d now like to learn more about your AI usage habits and the limits of current tools…
PARTICIPANT: Continue

*Q4*
MODERATOR: For what kinds of personal tasks do you most often use AI? Give me some concrete examples.

PARTICIPANT: I use AI to find recipes with what I have in my fridge, to help me write emails when I need a particular tone or phrasing that I can’t find. I sometimes have a bit of trouble finding it, and it also helps me find routes, restaurants or points of interest when I go on vacation.

MODERATOR: Tell me more about how you use AI for trip planning. What kind of help are you looking for exactly?

PARTICIPANT: I’ll ask it questions about the destination and, for example, use Tilt prompts: “Find me a restaurant near the beach, open on a Saturday night, where I can enjoy both seafood and meat for my companion.”

MODERATOR: You mentioned using AI for recipes. How does AI help you exactly in that area?

PARTICIPANT: For recipes, I tell Liya what I have in my fridge and in my pantry. I tell it that I’m looking for a healthy recipe ready in under 30 minutes. If the recipe I get doesn’t suit me, I ask it to try other recipes.

*Q5*
MODERATOR: Tell me about a time you wanted to use AI but couldn’t. What was the task? What prevented you?

PARTICIPANT: It wasn’t a personal task but a professional one. I had to set up random teams and I had provided a list of first and last names with the team each person was in. I asked it to make teams where there was at least one specific person in each team. For example, I had John from the product team and Mathilde from the tech team, as well as lots of other names from the product team and the tech team. I told it to make teams of six with at least three people from the product team and three people from the tech team. I couldn’t do it because the file was too big, there were two hundred and fifty names, and it told me the file was too large and that with the free version I couldn’t do what I wanted. So I had to do it manually.

MODERATOR: Did you look for other AI solutions that could have handled that team-creation task, or was the file-size limitation the main issue?

PARTICIPANT: So yes, I tried to look for other AI solutions. I went through Gemini in particular. The size limitation was no longer the main issue. So the problem was it created lists with a lot of duplicates. For example, we had Mathilde twice in the same team, or Mathilde was in three different teams, so it was impossible. I still had to go back and redo it 100% myself, because in fact it was too long to make sure each team was correct. It was faster to do it myself and start over.

*Q6*
MODERATOR: How much do you trust the results or suggestions provided by AI tools?

PARTICIPANT: 2 - Low trust

*Q7*
MODERATOR: Finally, I’d like to know what the ideal AI assistant would look like for you…
PARTICIPANT: Continue

*Q8*
MODERATOR: Imagine you had a perfect personal AI assistant. What would be the most important things it would do for you? How would it be better than current tools?

PARTICIPANT: For me, a perfect personal system would be one that would help me in my personal life to manage my mental load, notably by allowing me to save time, for example to do the shopping or to schedule appointments with the doctor or the vet. It would automatically record my alerts in my calendar, with reminders at the right time to remind me what I have to do. Basically, overall, it’s someone who would take initiative, more than an assistant who would wait for me to tell it to do things. How would it be better than current tools? I think it’s precisely the proactivity versus passivity part.

MODERATOR: You mentioned proactivity as a key improvement. Can you give concrete examples of how this ideal AI assistant would take initiatives proactively?

PARTICIPANT: A concrete example would be that I notice there’s no butter left in the fridge, and I therefore add butter to my shopping list. The productivity gain would be that, via my Drive app, it would directly add the butter to my basket, knowing it’s the butter I usually buy, since it knows. It’s the same principle for medical appointments. For example, analyzing the fact that I go to the hairdresser every six weeks and reminding me to make an appointment a few weeks before, automatically recording the appointments in my calendar and having reminders the day before, for example one hour before. Basically, it’s scanning my life habits to simplify my life and propose initiatives that align with my usual lifestyle, whether for shopping, recipes, or appointments at the beautician, the hairdresser, the doctor, etc., when these are habitual things that keep recurring.

MODERATOR: You talked about AI analyzing your habits. How would you like the AI to handle exceptions or changes in your routine?

PARTICIPANT: In case of a change in routine, for example, if Sylvia sees that the slot is blocked, the hairdresser doesn’t come every 6 weeks but every 8 weeks, to ask me whether I want to keep this new habit and therefore schedule all my future appointments on an 8-week basis, or if it’s exceptional and it should keep its usual routine outside of this event.

*Q9*
MODERATOR: You already mentioned the calendar and shopping. How could the AI be connected to the other systems you use? What would that allow you to do?

PARTICIPANT: Overall, the goal would be for the AI to indeed be connected, for example, to my calendar, to my shopping list, to my Drive app, to my Planity app for the hairdresser or for regular appointments, like the beautician, etc. That would allow the AI to be proactive in booking appointments and in reminders. For cooking, overall, we regularly eat the same things, so that it would be connected to my Notes app where I have all my recipes, so that I could get relevant recipes according to my tastes, which it knows thanks to all the recipes I’ve already saved. It’s what I like and what I want to eat, so push recipes based on those tastes and add all the ingredients directly into my Drive to save me time and lighten my mental load.

*Q10*
MODERATOR: Before concluding, I’d like your feelings about being interviewed by an AI…

PARTICIPANT: Continue

*Q11*
MODERATOR: How did you feel being interviewed by an AI rather than a human? What differed in this experience?

PARTICIPANT: I think AI is less spontaneous than a human. It sticks to a given script, whereas a human will bounce off my expressions, emotions and the unsaid parts of my sentence to ask even more targeted questions. AI, for its part, will stay a bit more within its script.

MODERATOR: You say AI is less spontaneous. How does that affect the quality of the answers you give?

PARTICIPANT: I don’t [know] [overall] I have the impression that the questions [are] maybe a bit redundant compared to the first questions; we’re unable to ask it [to] clarify certain things so I [don’t] know if for example here I completely forgot to say that the AI could also help me in managing all my emails and in scheduling appointments with the bank if the bank [sends] me an email to offer me an appointment [that] [still] [checks] my calendar to see if I’m available [and] if that’s the case to be able to offer to send [emails] on my behalf to confirm the appointment with the bank, etc. I find that as a result it’s [a] little bit more [a] little bit more framed, but not necessarily in the right sense of the term since it prevents spontaneity on [our] side and stops us from probing certain answers that could be interesting for the human

*Q12*
MODERATOR: Thank you for sharing your experiences and your opinions on AI tools! Your feedback will help us create better AI assistants, truly tailored to people’s needs.
